:book: Remove doubled header and add cloud config reference (#518)
kairos-io/kairos: docs/content/en/docs/Reference/configuration.md

          - 8.8.8.8
```

{{% alert title="Note" %}}

> Kairos doesn't use [cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/). [yip](https://github.com/mudler/yip) was created with a primarly key on distro agnosticism - indeed it doesn't bash out at all (exception is systemd configurations, where it's implied you have systemd) and can be run also on minimal Linux distros, built also from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kairos doesn't use [cloud-init](https://cloud-init.io/). [yip](https://github.com/mudler/yip) was created with the goals to be distro agnostic - indeed it doesn't bash out at all (exception is systemd configurations, where it's implied you have systemd) and can also be run on minimal Linux distros, built from scratch.
```

> The rationale is to put us in trajectory to have very minimal requirements - indeed our cloud-init implementation doesn't have dependencies, while the original  cloud-init depends on python, which, makes a deptree grow. The CoreOS implementation have general assumption of the layout of the system, which makes it less portable and wasn't fitting Kairos use-cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rationale is to put us in trajectory to have very minimal requirements - indeed our cloud-init implementation doesn't have dependencies, while the original cloud-init depends on python, which makes the dependency tree grow. There is a CoreOS implementation too, which makes a general assumption on the layout of the system. This makes it less portable and wasn't fitting Kairos use-cases.
```

# INFO[2022-11-18T08:53:45Z] Done executing stage 'test'
```

### Using templates

> Fields of cloud init are templated can be used to allow dynamic configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fields of cloud-init are templated can be used to allow dynamic configuration.
```

> Node information retrieved by [sysinfo](https://github.com/zcalusic/sysinfo#sample-output) is templated in the commands, file and entities fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Node information is retrieved by [sysinfo](https://github.com/zcalusic/sysinfo#sample-output) and is templated in the commands, file and entities fields.
```

  # Set DNS forward server
  DNSFORWARDSERVER: "8.8.8.8:53"
```

## Stages

> The `stage` is a map that allows to execute blocks of cloud-init directives during the lifecycle of the node [stages](/docs/architecture/cloud-init).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `stages` key is a map that allows to execute blocks of cloud-init directives during the lifecycle of the node [stages](/docs/architecture/cloud-init).
```

                  kind: "user"
                  username: "foo"
                  password: "pass"
                  uid: 0
                  gid: 0
                  info: "Foo!"
                  homedir: "/home/foo"
                  shell: "/bin/bash"
       delete_entities:
       -  path: /etc/passwd
          entity: |
                  kind: "user"
                  username: "foo"
                  password: "pass"
                  uid: 0
                  gid: 0
                  info: "Foo!"
                  homedir: "/home/foo"
                  shell: "/bin/bash"
      datasource:
        providers:
          - "digitalocean"
          - "aws"
          - "gcp"
        path: "/usr/local/etc"
```

Note multiple stages can be specified, to execute blocks into different stages, consider:

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
   - commands:
     - echo "hello from the boot stage"
   initramfs:
   - commands:
     - echo "hello from the boot stage"
   - commands:
     - echo "so much wow, /foo/bar bar exists!"
     if: "[ -e /foo/bar ]"
```

Below you can find a list of all the supported fields, mind to replace with the appropriate stage you want to hook into.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Filtering stages by node hostname

> stages can be skipped based on the node hostname:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stages can be skipped based on the node hostname:
```

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
  foo:
  - name: "echo"
    commands:
    - echo hello

>     node: "hostname" # Node hostname

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    node: "the_node_hostname_here" # Node hostname
```

> name: "Test yip!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

### Filtering stages with if statement

Stages can be skipped based on if statements:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
  foo:
  - name: "echo"
    commands:
    - echo hello
    if: "cat /proc/cmdline | grep debug"

name: "Test yip!"
```

> The expression inside the if will be evaluated in bash and, if specified, the stage gets executed only if the condition returns successfully (exit 0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The expression inside the `if` will be evaluated in bash and, if specified, the stage gets executed only if the condition returns successfully (exit 0).
```

         permissions: 0600
         owner: 0
         group: 0
```

### `dns`

A way to configure the `/etc/resolv.conf` file.

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup dns"
       dns:
         nameservers:
         - 8.8.8.8
         - 1.1.1.1
         search:
         - foo.bar
         options:
         - ..
         path: "/etc/resolv.conf.bak"
```
### `hostname`

A string representing the machine hostname. It sets it in the running system, updates `/etc/hostname` and adds the new hostname to `/etc/hosts`.
Templates can be used to allow dynamic configuration. For example in mass-install scenario it could be needed (and easier) to specify hostnames for multiple machines from a single cloud-init config file.

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup hostname"
       hostname: "node-{{ trunc 4 .MachineID }}"
```
### `sysctl`

Kernel configuration. It sets `/proc/sys/<key>` accordingly, similarly to `sysctl`.

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup exception trace"
       systctl:
         debug.exception-trace: "0"
```

### `authorized_keys`

A list of SSH authorized keys that should be added for each user.

> SSH keys can be obtained from GitHub user accounts by using the format github:${USERNAME},  similarly for Gitlab with gitlab:${USERNAME}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSH keys can be obtained from GitHub user accounts by using the format github:${USERNAME}, similarly for Gitlab with gitlab:${USERNAME}.
```

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup exception trace"
       authorized_keys:
         mudler:

>          - github:mudler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - "github:mudler"
```

>          - ssh-rsa: ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - "ssh-rsa: ..."
```

```

### `node`

> If defined, the node hostname where this stage has to run, otherwise it skips the execution. The node can be also a regexp in the Golang format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If defined, the node hostname where this stage has to run, otherwise it skips the execution. The node can also be a regexp in the Golang format.
```

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup logging"
       node: "bastion"
```

### `users`

> A map of users and user info to set. Passwords can be also encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A map of users and user info to set. Passwords can also be encrypted.
```

The `users` parameter adds or modifies the specified list of users. Each user is an object which consists of the following fields. Each field is optional and of type string unless otherwise noted.

> In case the user is already existing, the entry is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the user already exists, the entry is ignored.
```

         start:
          - cronie
```
### `environment`

A map of variables to write in `/etc/environment`, or otherwise specified in `environment_file`

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup users"
       environment:
         FOO: "bar"
```
### `environment_file`

A string to specify where to set the environment file

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup users"
       environment_file: "/home/user/.envrc"
       environment:
         FOO: "bar"
```
### `timesyncd`

Sets the `systemd-timesyncd` daemon file (`/etc/system/timesyncd.conf`) file accordingly. The documentation for `timesyncd` and all the options can be found [here](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/timesyncd.conf.html).

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Setup NTP"
       systemctl:
         enable:
         - systemd-timesyncd
       timesyncd:
          NTP: "0.pool.org foo.pool.org"
          FallbackNTP: ""
          ...
```

### `datasource`

Sets to fetch user data from the specified cloud providers. It populates
provider specific data into `/run/config` folder and the custom user data
is stored into the provided path.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Fetch cloud provider's user data"
       datasource:
         providers:
         - "aws"
         - "digitalocean"
         path: "/etc/cloud-data"
```

### `layout`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Sets additional partitions on disk free space, if any, and/or expands the last
partition. All sizes are expressed in MiB only and default value of `size: 0`
means all available free space in disk. This plugin is useful to be used in
oem images where the default partitions might not suit the actual disk geometry.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
     - name: "Repart disk"
       layout:
         device:
           # It will partition a device including the given filesystem label
           # or partition label (filesystem label matches first) or the device
           # provided in 'path'. The label check has precedence over path when
           # both are provided.
           label: "COS_RECOVERY"
           path: "/dev/sda"

>          # Only last partition can be expanded and it happens before any other
>          # partition is added. size: 0 means all available free space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         # Only last partition can be expanded and it happens after all the other
         # partitions are created. size: 0 means all available free space
```

         expand_partition:
           size: 4096
         add_partitions:
           - fsLabel: "COS_STATE"
             size: 8192
             # No partition label is applied if omitted
             pLabel: "state"
           - fsLabel: "COS_PERSISTENT"
             # default filesystem is ext2 if omitted
             filesystem: "ext4"
```

### `git`

Pull git repositories, using golang native git (no need of git in the host).

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
    - git:
       url: "git@gitlab.com:.....git"
       path: "/oem/cloud-config-files"
       branch: "main"
       auth:
         insecure: true
         private_key: |
          -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
          -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
```

### `downloads`

Download files to specified locations

```yaml
#cloud-config

stages:
   boot:
    - downloads:
      - path: /tmp/out

>         url: "http://www...."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        url: "https://www...."
```

        permissions: 0700
        owner: 0
        group: 0
        timeout: 0
        owner_string: "root"
      - path: /tmp/out

>         url: "http://www...."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        url: "https://www...."
```
